
Many of Kafka’s fables contain an inscrutable, baffling mixture of the normal and the fantastic, though
occasionally the strangeness may be understood as the outcome of a literary or verbal device, as when the
delusions of a pathological state are given the status of reality or when the metaphor of a common figure of
speech is taken literally. Thus, in The Judgment a son unquestioningly commits suicide at the behest of his aged
father. In The Metamorphosis the son, Gregor Samsa, wakes up to find himself transformed into a monstrous and
repulsive insect; he slowly dies, not only because of his family’s shame and its neglect of him but because of his
own guilty despair.

Many of the tales are even more unfathomable. Kafka’s stories and novels have provoked a wealth of interpretations. Brod and Kafka’s first English translators,
Edwin Muir and his wife, Willa, viewed the novels as allegories of divine grace. Existentialists have seen Kafka’s
environment of guilt and despair as the ground upon which to construct an authentic existence. Some have seen
his neurotic involvement with his father as the heart of his work. Others have emphasized the social criticism, the
inhumanity of the powerful and their agents, the violence and barbarity that lurk beneath normal routine. Some
have found an imaginative anticipation of totalitarianism in the random and faceless bureaucratic terror of The
Trial. The Surrealists delighted in the persistent intrusions of the absurd. There is evidence in both the works and
the diaries for each of these interpretations, but Kafka’s work as a whole transcends them all. One critic may have
put it most accurately when he wrote of the works as “open parables” whose final meanings can never be rounded
off.

But Kafka’s oeuvre is also limited. Each of his works bears the marks of a man suffering in spirit and body,
searching desperately, but always inwardly, for meaning, security, self-worth, and a sense of purpose. Kafka
himself looked upon his writing and the creative act it signified as a means of “redemption,” as a “form of
prayer” through which he might be reconciled to the world or might transcend his negative experience of it. The
lucidly described but inexplicable darkness of his works reveal Kafka’s own frustrated personal struggles, but
through his powerless characters and the strange incidents that befall them the author achieved a compelling
symbolism that more broadly signifies the anxiety and alienation of the 20th-century world itself.

At the time of his death, Kafka was appreciated only by a small literary coterie. His name and work would not
have survived if Brod had honoured Kafka’s testament—two notes requiring his friend to destroy all unpublished
manuscripts and to refrain from republishing the works that had already appeared in print. Brod took the opposite
course, and thus the name and work of Kafka gained worldwide posthumous fame. This development took place
first in France and the English-speaking countries during the regime of Adolf Hitler, at the very time when
Kafka’s three sisters were deported and killed in concentration camps. After 1945 Kafka was rediscovered in
Germany and Austria and began to greatly influence German literature. By the 1960s this influence became
global and extended even to the intellectual, literary, and political life of Kafka’s place of birth, what had become
communist Czechoslovakia.

